agentless winston (#6862)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/logs/log_collection/nodejs.md

    sourcecategory: sourcecode
```

> ## Aggentless Logging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Agentless Logging
```

> It is possible to stream logs from your application to Datadog or to the Datadog Agent directly. This is not the recommended setup as handling connection issues should not be done directly in your application, but it might not be possible to log to a file when your application is running on a machine that cannot be accessed.

Reviewer: Logging to a file is discouraged, so this paragraph doesn't reflect real usage. Maybe it should be clearer that the problem is with the agent and not with a file?

Author: I'm sorry but no, from what I understood so far, the recommended set up is to :
1. log to a file
2. instal and setup the agent to watch that file.

This paragraph is a copy/paste from the c# doc https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/log_collection/csharp/?tab=serilog#agentless-logging

Reviewer: This doc may also need to be changed, but maybe not since .NET is used by a lot of older entreprise users with legacy systems, so they can be expected to use outdated approaches. This is not true for Node.

The best practice for cloud-native architectures is to send logs to stdout/stderr and let the infrastructure forward it to the right place. This could be a file, syslog, a log shipper, a remote endpoint, but the app should not have this knowledge unless you are in an environment where this is not possible. This is even in the [twelve-factor app](https://12factor.net/logs).

In that sense, the statement is misleading since it focuses on a single outdated way to store logs.

Author: I see. 
Would this wording be better for you? 
`The recommended integration is to configure the Agent on your server in order to have a more robust integration (ex: handling connection issues). If you cannot instal the Datadog Agent, you can directly stream your log to Datadog.`

Reviewer: That works! It's generic and to the point 👍

> {{< tabs >}}

Reviewer: Should we document API usage directly as well? A lot of users won't be using Winston, and we don't yet support other popular loggers out of the box.

Author: the API is already documented here: https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/?lang=bash#send-logs-over-http 
I'll add a link to it.

Author: added

{{% tab "Winston 3.0" %}}

> You can use [winston HTTP transport][1] to send your logs directly through the datadog API.

Reviewer: If we recommend this transport, should we take ownership of it?

Author: what do you mean by "take the ownership of it" ?

Reviewer: I meant the other transport and not this one, sorry for the confusion, I'll copy this comment to the other one.

In your bootstrap file or somewhere in your code, declare the logger as follow:

```js

const { createLogger, format, transports } = require('winston');

const httpTransportOptions = {
  host: 'http-intake.logs.datadoghq.com',

>   path: '/v1/input/{put your API key here}',

Reviewer 2: We should recommend to set the source as `nodejs` and maybe service as their application name.

This can be added as query parameter `/v1/input/<APIKEY>?ddsource=nodejs&service=<APPLICATION_NAME>`

What do you think?

Author: looks better indeed! 👍

Author: added

    sourcecategory: sourcecode
```

## Agentless Logging

> The recommended integration is to configure the Agent on your server in order to have a more robust integration (ex: handling connection issues). If you cannot instal the Datadog Agent, you can directly stream your log to Datadog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can stream your logs from your application to Datadog without installing an Agent on your Host. Note that using an Agent to forward your logs is recommended as it provides a native connection management.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Winston 3.0" %}}

> You can use [winston HTTP transport][1] to send your logs directly through the [datadog API][3].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use [Winston HTTP transport][1] to send your logs directly through the [Datadog Log API][3].
```

In your bootstrap file or somewhere in your code, declare the logger as follow:

```js

const { createLogger, format, transports } = require('winston');

const httpTransportOptions = {
  host: 'http-intake.logs.datadoghq.com',
  path: '/v1/input/<APIKEY>?ddsource=nodejs&service=<APPLICATION_NAME>',
  ssl: true
};

const logger = createLogger({
  level: 'info',
  exitOnError: false,
  format: format.json(),
  transports: [
    new transports.Http(httpTransportOptions),
  ],
});

module.exports = logger;

// Example logs
logger.log('info', 'Hello simple log!');
logger.info('Hello log with metas',{color: 'blue' });
```

> __Note:__ To send logs to Datadog EU site, set the host property to `http-intake.logs.datadoghq.eu`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note**: To send logs to Datadog EU site, set the host property to `http-intake.logs.datadoghq.eu`
```

> If you are using US site, you can also check the community supported [Datadog Transport][2].

Reviewer: If we recommend this transport, should we try to ask for its ownership?

Author: Asking for the ownership looks like a good idea indeed if you think that the level of quality is good and a Datadog team accept to maintain it. IMO we should discuss this as a separated thread.

[1]: https://github.com/winstonjs/winston/blob/master/docs/transports.md#http-transport
[2]: https://github.com/winstonjs/winston/blob/master/docs/transports.md#datadog-transport

> [3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/?lang=bash#send-logs-over-http

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[3]: /api/?lang=bash#send-logs-over-http
```
